---
inFeed: false
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: true
keywords: []
description: 'Viewers, peepers, VR'
datePublished: '2016-01-04T04:13:37.181Z'
dateModified: '2016-01-04T04:13:32.196Z'
title: 'Hololens, an example'
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-01-03-f9152322-caa2-43cf-8ed2-1f32e5b28c4b.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: f9152322-caa2-43cf-8ed2-1f32e5b28c4b/index.html
_type: Blurb

---
If you are the type of person who pays attention to new innovations that haven't even hit the market yet, then you have heard of the new Hololens that is one part awesome and two parts an example of how quick technology is advancing even beyond what our capitalist system can spit out at us to buy during the holidays. The past two years or so, there has been a swell in interest in VR coming to fruition for regular citizens of our modern society everywhere, and it seems as if atleast Oculus Rift will launch at some point in the middle of this year according to multiple online sources. The kicker here of course is, that Microsoft already went and made the Oculus Rift as well as other VR headsets obsolete with a product that essentially leapfrogs them with technology that hasn't even hit the market yet.

The VR headsets that are currently being bandied around are fully immersive and require you dedicate yourself to no longer being an actor in the environment around you, where as Augmented Reality headsets you can do both. There is some disagreement there, but if during your time with an AR headset strapped on your can set parameters for the entire room around you to become a setting for a game, movie, or tv show you want to be immersed in there is nothing holding you back from using the AR headset as a VR headset because there is no screen that will block out your vision if you decide to pause the game/movie/show, and resume real life for a short time period you won't even have to take the helmet off.

The Hololens eclipses Google Glass, and Oculus Rift was supposed to become the next step in gaming -- and many technophiles were waiting to purchase and very well may still purchase VR headset, but why bother, it's already obsolete.

Have you noticed how the dialogue around technology purchases has changed? It has gone from, "You buy a computer and two years later, it's obsolete," to "You buy a computer and six months later, it's obsolete." to the conversation is starting to sound a lot like, "I was excited about this product, and before I ever had a chance to purchase it, it is obsolete!" This will become the new normal, there is no getting around it -- this is the primest example of how the pace of technology from this point on is outside of consumers being able to track if it wasn't already. 

So, feel free to save your money for the Hololens or one of the VR headsets due out in the few months, but be warned that even before these things hit the shelves the next big thing will follow even quicker than it did the year prior. 

Upon its release, there will be another significant disconnect from humans occupying the same space with one another. Do you remember  when Bluetooth headsets were first launched, and everyone thought it was weird to have people  hold conversations with people who weren't there? That's going to become outdated before most of us have even fully acclimated to it. Imagine how now we extend to an even deeper realm of disassociation with the environment/people around us in the form of full on gesturing and looking in the direction of others without acknowledging their existence.

Initially this will be taboo for people to wear in public just as those who were early adopters of Google Glass were vilified as assholes, I'm sorry glassholes because others were afraid of being recorded without their consent. The reality is though that all of us are already constantly being recorded without our consent from a person's smartwatch or phone to traffic lights and store security cameras. If the idea of someone being in your vicinity and watching your behavior untethered from technology doesn't make you uncomfortable, ask yourself why.

More on this at a later time.

- M. Sapien